# Xubuntu 20.04 Installation 

------------------------------------------------------

##  Step 1: Download the Installation Media 

1. Download [Xbuntu 20.04 LTS ISO FILE](https://xubuntu.org/download/).

## Step 2: Create Bootable USB Drive on Windows

> You will need a USB drive with 4GB or more. This process will delete all data on the USB drive. Make sure to backup any existing data on the USB drive.

> You’ll need to install a third-party utility called Rufus to create a USB bootable drive.

1. [Download the Rufus utility](https://rufus.ie/en/). Scroll down to the download section and click the link to download the latest version of Rufus.
2. Run the file once downloaded.
3. A pop-up dialog opens. You will be prompted whether you want to check for online updates. Select No.
4. The Rufus utility launches. Plug in the USB drive – you should see the drive pop up in the device field.
    
    + Set the USB as the device you wish to write to.
    + In the Boot Selection drop-down, click Disk or ISO Image.
    + Click the Select button to the right.
    + Browse and select the .iso xubuntu file you downloaded earlier.

5. Click Start.

## Step 3:  Boot up Xubuntu from USB

1. Turn off your system. Make sure you remove all other USB devices, such as printers, memory cards, etc.
2. Insert the xubuntu USB drive into the system and turn on your machine.

* There are two possible scenarios:

    + The computer boots the USB drive automatically.
    + You need to manually configure USB booting in the Boot Menu or BIOS/UEFI.

3.  To manually configure the boot order, tap the boot menu key about once or twice per second as soon as the computer powers on.

* The boot menu key may be different depending on your computer manufacturer. Below is a list of common boot keys associated to a brand:

    | BRAND     |   KEY             |
    | :-------- | :---------------: | 
    |Asus       |	F8 or Esc       |
    |Acer       |	F12, F9 or Esc  |
    |Compaq     |	F9 or Esc       |
    |Dell       |	F12             |
    |eMachines  |	F12             |
    |Fujitsu    |	F12             |
    |HP         |	F9 or Esc       |
    |Lenovo     |	F8, F10 or F12  |
    |Samsung    |	F2, F12 or Esc  |
    |Toshiba    |	F1              |

4. Once you see your boot menu, use the arrows to pick the xubuntu media to boot from. For a DVD, the entry will usually have DVD or Optical in the name. USB is usually labeled USB. Then, Your system should start loading the xubuntu live disc menu.

## Step 4: Booting the USB installer

* [Follow this nice guide](https://www.lifewire.com/guide-to-installing-xubuntu-linux-2202075)




